---
title: MIDI Maker Tempo
date: 2023-03-21
tags:
  - Pitch Tracker
  - MIDI
  - Automation
  - Utility
---


# MIDI Maker Tempo


<div class="video-embed"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/HYCspUJnnGs" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

**Tags:** Pitch Tracker, MIDI, Automation, Utility

**[Download Patch](https://patchstorage.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/MIDI-Maker-Tempo-641a29e0be378.zip)**

Turn audio frequencies into MIDI notes & repeat the notes at tempo-synced intervals. Play guitar, etc. into Organelle's audio input & hear notes played back in real time. Send MIDI notes to other MIDI gear for more fun!

## Details

This patch consists of three pages for controls and display. The Main page has controls for MIDI note length, octave transpose, semitone transpose, and wet/dry mix. Use the Repeat page to set your MIDI note repeat/echo. The 'View' page displays generated MIDI notes and their velocities. The 'Aux Menu' contains shortcuts to  sustain MIDI notes as well as 'halt' all MIDI notes currently playing.

A typical use case would be:  
1. Connect an audio source or sound-making device to your Organelle.  
2. Play your sound making device and hear the internal synth play along with you.  
3. Connect a MIDI cable from your Organelle’s MIDI output to an external device’s MIDI input.  
4. Play your sound making device and hear the internal synth AND your external device(s) playing together.  
5. Use the ‘Aux Menu’ to access the ‘Repeat’ page and set rhythmic parameters to your taste.

To do some of the steps above you will need to use the ‘Aux Menu’. The Aux Button controls the ‘Aux Menu’. When you press Aux for 0.2 seconds, a new menu is displayed on OLED Screen for as long as you hold Aux. To select an Aux Menu command/Page, use the Top Row of Organelle keys. The Low C# key selects Top command. The Low A# Key selects the bottom command.

The following commands are available in the Aux Menu:  
Sustain: Hold MIDI notes until toggled off. This is also accessible via foot switch.  
Halt: End all active MIDI notes. Useful for ending a crescendo or fixing hung MIDI notes.   
Main: Go to control page for MIDI settings and Dry/Wet setting.  
Repeat: Go to control page for note repeats.  
Viewer: Open a display showing the stream of MIDI notes heard and generated by the patch  
with corresponding velocity values. Use this page to set MIDI output channel.

__The Bottom Row of keys do not apply to the Aux Menu of this patch.__  
  
The following functions are controlled by the knobs in the ‘Main’ page:  
Knob1: Note Length: 10ms - 2000ms  
Knob2: Octave: -3 to +3  
Knob3: Semitone: -12 to +12  
Knob4: Dry/Wet: blend, 0% is all input signal, and 100% is the internal synth with no dry signal.

The following functions are controlled by the knobs in the ‘Repeat’ page:  
Knob1: Tempo: 20BPM - 220BPM, sets the tempo of repeated notes  
Knob2: Note: 16th - Half, sets the rhythmic speed of repeated notes  
Knob3: Note Amount: 1x - 32x, sets the number of repetitions of each note triggered.  
Knob4: Velocity Fade: at 0% every repeat will be the same volume, and at 100% the repeated notes will fade out instantly.

If you like a setting, don’t forget to ‘Save’ in the Storage menu. The Organelle may make a buzzing sound, but this is normal.

TECH SPECS:  
Link enabled.  
MIDI note velocities match the amplitude of incoming audio frequency.  
Foot Switch: Activates ‘Sustain’ like a sustain pedal on a MIDI controller or piano. The current note(s) generated by the patch will be held until the pedal is released.

Not working? Make sure your input volume is loud enough and only generating one note at a time (monophonically).

If too many notes are played into MIDI Maker, the FFT cannot identify a specific pitch to reproduce.

The 'Note Length' setting is overruled by the timing dictated by the 'Note' type and Tempo: if your Note Length is longer than the interval allowed by the Note and Tempo, the note length will be clipped to that interval.
