---
title: MIDI Maker
date: 2023-03-21
tags:
  - Pitch Tracker
  - MIDI
  - Automation
  - Utility
---


# MIDI Maker


<div class="video-embed"><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/HYCspUJnnGs" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

**Tags:** Pitch Tracker, MIDI, Automation, Utility

**[Download Patch](https://patchstorage.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/MIDI-Maker-641a20c653824.zip)**

Turn audio frequencies into MIDI notes. Play a guitar, sing, etc., into the Organelle’s audio input & hear your notes played back in real time. Send the MIDI notes to other MIDI gear for more fun.

## Details

This patch consists of two pages for controls and display. The Main page has controls for MIDI note length, octave transpose, semitone transpose, and wet/dry mix. The 'View' page displays generated MIDI notes and their velocities. The 'Aux Menu' contains shortcuts to  sustain MIDI notes as well as 'halt' all MIDI notes currently playing.

A typical use case would be:  
1. Connect an audio source or sound-making device to your Organelle.  
  
2. Play your sound making device and hear the internal synth play along with you.  
  
3. Connect a MIDI cable from your Organelle’s MIDI output to an external device’s MIDI input.  
  
4. Play your sound making device and hear the internal synth AND your external device(s) playing together.

To do some of the steps above you will need to use the ‘Aux Menu’. The Aux Button controls the ‘Aux Menu’. When you press Aux for 0.2 seconds, a new menu is displayed on OLED Screen for as long as you hold Aux. To select an Aux Menu command/Page, use the Top Row of Organelle keys. The Low C# key selects Top command. The Low A# Key selects the bottom command.

The following commands are available in the Aux Menu:  
Sustain: Hold MIDI notes until toggled off. This is also accessible via foot switch.  
Halt: End all active MIDI notes. Useful for ending a crescendo or fixing hung MIDI notes.   
Main: Go to control page for MIDI settings and Dry/Wet setting.  
Viewer: Open a display showing the stream of MIDI notes heard and generated by the patch with corresponding velocity values. Use this page to set MIDI output channel.

The Bottom Row of keys do not apply to the Aux Menu of this patch.

The following functions are controlled by the knobs in the ‘Main’ page:

Knob1: Note Length: 10ms - 2000ms  
  
Knob2: Octave: -3 to +3  
Knob3: Semitone: -12 to +12  
  
Knob4: Dry/Wet: blend, 0% is all input signal, and 100% is the internal synth with no dry signal.

If you like a setting, don’t forget to ‘Save’ in the Storage menu. The Organelle may make a buzzing sound, but this is normal.

TECH SPECS:  
  
MIDI note velocities match the amplitude of incoming audio frequency.  
Foot Switch: Activates ‘Sustain’ like a sustain pedal on a MIDI controller or piano. The current note(s) generated by the patch will be held until the pedal is released.

Not working? Make sure your input volume is loud enough and only generating one note at a time (monophonically).

If too many notes are played into MIDI Maker, the FFT cannot identify a specific pitch to reproduce.
